epitech part2
2026.07.08 수 오후 6:31 ・ 28분 46초
문건호


참석자 1 00:06
There's positive things there's also some main positions that can be replaced by AI.
Thegally speaking, I don't know in your opinion is still a very human position we have seen all of you are going to contact a lot of people's humanized also position do you think I mean in the future let's say that in five years you are still seeing your position that's open on the media you see yourself a lot of changement, a lot of modification in your position.
What's your opinion in five years?

참석자 2 00:48
In my case, I think that my position, it will still exist in five years but as AI gets better and translating tools get better and adaptation tools get better, there will be less people needed to do my job.
When I started in IFB in my service there were about 14 or 15 people from then to now three or four people have gone because you were old enough to retired and they have not been replaced and we still do the same work that we did before with less people.
So I think

참석자 2 01:53
and in five years AI will do a lot of the things that we do today like translating and adapting and we will just have to read PROF what the AI du does and just published it after making sure that it's correct.

참석자 3 02:14
I'm not sure what will come in five years because you know, four years ago nobody knew about CGPT.
So I'm sure that a lot is coming maybe for good, maybe for bad.
It is the role of the media to adapt themselves to these stack a lot the swallowed by the SY

참석자 4 03:01
because we are more and more PS information and so and so.
So it's time to the blis since we do not have like as I was to.

참석자 4 03:21
And I think the main challenge is also we are doing major ins in the economy because we cant forget that AI is based.
AI models are basically stealing intellectual property probability.
So what we as to do is something we are going to use major associates but there have not been for now there are like tos and negotiation po and there are some agreements but most of the aments today I live English speaking MUS mostly in USA and in Europe

참석자 4 04:09
there is a challenge for the media that are not based in the US or Europe or that are not English media to get agreement with those models to survive.

참석자 1 04:30
Okay thank you. I think we are almost at the end.
Many things were said during this little conference but now it's going to be the turn of students to work on projects, to find ideas, to find the bain points.
So maybe do you have last recommendation for them because they will be working for 48 hours on a specific project on a specific pain point problematic.
So maybe do you have last recommendation for them for the next two days?

참석자 3 05:03
Maybe one last thing that might interest you you said it before but you guys all check news on social media.
More and more people are chasing directly on CHAG while you're run on Instagram or TikTok social media use and that's a problem for us just like SY because IA is getting information from our newspapers or television or whatever and we have to find a way to be paid for this.
So yes, keep that in mind.
CHARG and social media are the first do for journalism today.

참석자 4 05:43
And just why AI is not always promoting are promoting molariable information like some chatbots like the X chatbot is promoting alatives coming from different states such as Russia and so on and so on.
So such alution, so such elutions so they are most of the channels are not promoting a reliable information.

참석자 2 06:14
I would say before you jump into a project if you want to get ideas, of course, check what happened today.
Use check social media to see what the usual posts that you would read our life.
And then go ahead and search on Google and search on traditional, traditional media articles about the same topic see how they are treated.
Try to identify the journalists.
Go to the journalists Twitter for example try to see how they work, what they write about and to think like

참석자 2 07:01
half an hour to scour theater and buy articles, watch five minutes of TV and I think that that may help you novels and find a course of action for your A.

참석자 1 07:21
All right thank you very much.
Thank you

참석자 1 07:30
just before maybe let's pass through a quick Q&a.
Does any of you have any questions or do you have already an ID that you are doing?
Or do you have any type of questions to journalists today?

참석자 4 07:50
So my question is what's the biggest mistake you've ever made at?
What did it teach you?

참석자 2 07:58
It wasn't a mistake per se, but I think it was when when Iran attacked Israel for the first time in Israel's history I was working 11.30 PM and I was along with my boss and so when you translate something with the information, my boss translated it and after the translation, someone has to come in and check it and that someone is the one that sends it to the clients.
So I was still a, I was still a student and I wasn't actually like I wasn't re working I was doing my apprenticeship.

참석자 2 08:51
So it was the first big news that happened when I was working and I was very freaked out because only an important news and is an alert.
And this was not another it was a flash with sick which is up there like it's like the boat dies.
It's a flash, the queen dies it's a flash.
So this was a flash. I was very pricked out and I think I checked maybe 10 times that everything was written correctly and it took me

참석자 2 09:25
too much time like instead of doing it in 3 minutes, I did it like 6 or 7 minutes.
And my boss came the next day and told me yesterday you were too slow and that cannot be it's not possible you have to be faster with information like that

참석자 5 09:45
on the outside. So that was the big

참석자 3 09:49
the state I've ever before working for Ale I was working for C, which is another TE channel and I used to be a reporter and one day I had to cover like a protest.
So I used the camera in my shot and then when I came back to the media, I realized that I had deleted the shoots so no reports and the TV and girl were super angry so I had to come back to the film and start over again just to be ready for the TV.

참석자 4 10:31
Personally it was about trusting someone that I should not have trust because he was playing the game.
Yeah he was not working directly with ESM because it was someone.
Yeah and yeah, they put the agenda at the same time and he was trying to push something that was not re the asset on date.
So I think it's a thank you.

참석자 1 11:07
Do we have another question?
No one

참석자 6 11:14
Hi my name is B and I'm going to ask you a lot about verifying the articles because you guys said the main job of you guys are very fing other if this is true or not.
And I will ask you if you guys use AI in the process of verifying the article and if you use, can you just represent what AI says

참석자 2 11:56
in my case if it's very time, I never use AI I do not trust it.
I mean I could ask AI and then go into the sources I've used and verify that it's true.
But I find that it's much leer to just go on Google and research whatever I want to verify and see if there's an official web that will tell me if it's true or not if it's a, a president I will try to find it either in video or sometimes it's just a tweet.
So I go on X and

참석자 2 12:36
verify that it's actually real.
But yeah, I don't use the I because I'm always scared and I don't want to brave it by my boss.

참석자 3 12:49
I never use II, especially for checking the data and stuff like that.
As a journalist, you always have to go to a prim I would say which might be a report, a speech or the boot of someone that

참석자 4 13:25
establish the AI app to create this man or to this new

참석자 4 13:53
I need to check on who the ares and so on.
So where was it taken? Yeah where it was taken

참석자 6 14:06
can I ask additional questions to that?
I thank you for your answers.
And I want to ask what you guys can visualize what you guys have to verify in that article.
So the AI can visualize certain things and you can go ahead by yourself for the specific cases.
So if there's something like that when you want to use it or is it just more efficient when you just see it for yourself?
Those were the simple words.

참석자 2 14:51
I think it would be useful to have a tool that you can just put aveling in it kind maybe highlights if there are any inconsistencies.
For example, if an A is wrong, it's wrongly written if I don't know, you say it's written in the article Imanu MC, Vice President of France like maybe something that highlights oh, he's like, maybe a tool AI tool that will say this is a bit weird because all the sources in the internet say that

참석자 2 15:29
I, my call is actually President of France it's not Vice President.
Something like that would be useful.
So it's kind of like the same as a grammar director but with information.
So it will be nice to have I mean you can either use it or just ignore it so it doesn't do any harm.
Yeah

참석자 7 16:00
yes.

참석자 5 16:05
Yeah. So nowadays see Instagram has a new feature called channels and that's when you get the news directly in your messages it's really quick.
So how do you guys planning to do with that

참석자 2 16:24
like being quicker than that?

참석자 2 16:33
I mean in my case like in the case of my media I will say probably that information that is being sent to channels on Instagram is coming either from me or from the other two big agencies in the world which are Associated Press and OS.
So my job's done. In my case, I cannot really compete with it because we are doing Btob, business to business so we all try to send you guys the information.
First

참석자 3 17:15
I don't know to be honest I'm not very, I'm not very useful to channels and I'm not use it to get info.
So I would say I don't know like probably simply using the accounts of media I have the discovery channels for it.
So this is, I don't know yet

참석자 4 17:43
because most people in my region either using waters or topic.
But yeah as a major you just create a channel you send on that you provide me to who you want to visit and then the journey is done.
If you post something on Instagram on Twitter, you can upload the same one.
It's just a way to communicate with people

참석자 4 18:23
on one side. Me as providers I'm not going to create a channel for the, the previous I was there but I think I'm going to create one for journalists that might be interested in other sectors ISS of civil society governments.

참석자 2 18:52
I would like to add that if your traditional media like newspaper, it may be interesting to kind of get into that channels but it will take time.
He will be a journalist that actually does this.
So the time aspect of it that was your concern and just an idea of the, they're really interested in doing in school developing something that will automatically take whatever you publish in your web and kind of adapting it into channel language which is shorter and just

참석자 2 19:40
URL URLs and things like that.
And just instead of having a journalist actually write it out entirely, just have an AI do the work and have just the journalists verify it and make sure it's okay and just send it

참석자 4 20:08
that cover the world W and especially Africa.
They already have lots of chans.

참석자 4 20:20
Yeah you need to subscribe to the group but yeah, to join the group and then you have the news that in the website.
So they will make align maybe two or three sentences and then a week towards the website.

참석자 1 20:39
Thank you. I hope you will listen to that because they gave you a lot of ins about what could be nice to be developed.
I gave you a lot of advice.
Is there do you have another question maybe to finish one last

참석자 8 21:15
hi my name is when the other comes in, I make the,

참석자 2 21:33
the source of that. So in that case I think it was an IFP correspondent that was in, I don't know who was Iran or in Israel like there were several sources.
There was a source in Iran that I think got the information from government officials and then there was a source in Israel that actually saw the rockets up there.
So we sent our first alert with the source from government officials and another alert from the AP journalists on rockets.

참석자 2 22:14
It really depends. There's always, always, always a verified source and a source that you can trust.

참석자 4 22:27
I saying that when someone is being Y to Q for instance, I'm always trying to see if there was somebody with it like there are any witnesses that's on the human side and then I'm also trying to see if I can change for, if I can check the CC3 and if I have, like not ing on this, then I'm going to talk to colleagues to see what it was doing, what it was, what it was supposed to be how did you go there and if it was car by public transports

참석자 4 23:18
but I'm always trying to go to the resources as we say like to the witnesses and check performance and everything that can speak even they don't want to.

참석자 3 23:35
I'm not working for all these channels.
So we usually like the team who first verifies and checks.
So focused myself for

참석자 2 24:01
I would also maybe like to try to give you some CS on things that we can actually develop in these todays.
For example, in my work in a day of being break news like Iran and Israel, things happen very fast a lot, a lot a lot of things happen very, very fast and we need to be as fast as they are happening.
So on that day I actually had to work until 12 like midnight and I actually worked until 2 am and I had to write an entire article that explained everything that had happened in half an hour

참석자 2 24:50
which is as things that are happening it's very difficult to do because you take one information and there's three other informations that you have to include them.
And so I would have very much liked to have a tune that I could have given like a keyword or several keywords like Iran, Israel and that would have taken whatever comes out that includes those keywords and tried to explain it in little paragraphs

참석자 2 25:21
so that I didn't have to scour all the articles that were coming out and wasting time that I could have used to write the article

참석자 1 25:35
a lot of ins and devices. Thank you very much for being here today again.

참석자 1 25:50
So I change this and we will end up on that we are going to pass the group formation.
The size of group will be three equal

참석자 1 26:09
because there is one important thing is that the international groups will be privileged for the prices.
So if you have a move with at least two different nationalities, it will be quite dice in order not to get the prices again.
It's an international academy.
International means also international in the mixing of the groups and the members of the groups.
So that's why just after the presentation and it's going to be finished in a few minutes,

참석자 1 26:40
you will be able in this exact room to find your group members.
Maybe already you have ids and you want to share them to other people.
So try to find a group that suits you well with great ideas or someone that you want to bring downws

참석자 1 27:08
last thing, this is the moment if you want to take AO, take a screenshot or anything this is the moment you will be able to find the power points available just there.
So with the limitation of the project, the objectives and there will be simalized here.
Any questions about the A before passing through the conformation I think maybe we wanted to do a picture together here.

참석자 1 27:54
Okay if you can use all standard and pass on this side so we can do a little picture altogether and then you will pass the for.


clovanote.naver.com